Now we added some ejs magic or some ejs templates here. One thing that is missing here is the layout
functionality pug or handlebars gave us and indeed ejs doesn't have layouts but we can use so-called
partials or includes, by the way a feature that pug and handlebars also know.
The idea here is that you have some code blocks which you reuse in different parts of your templates
and you can therefore just share them across your templates,
so it's a bit like the opposite of a layout,
instead of having one master layout where you put your individual view parts into, you have a couple
of separated shared view parts which you can merge into the views you're creating and for that I'll create
a new subfolder in the views folder which I call includes and that name is up to you. There
I will create a couple of shared files or shared code blocks and which code do we share across all our
views?
Well we certainly share this part here where we have like the beginning of the html document including
the title, including the main css even and then we share the body of each document so we also can outsource
that even though it's not that much code right now
but that might change if we have a common script that we import everywhere,
we also share the navigation. So there are three include files
I want to create here, head.ejs for the start of the document,
end.ejs and of course you can name these files however you want and navigation.ejs.
And now I'll just go to the 404.ejs file,
grab the beginning of the page,
everything that is shared, cut that out of here and move it into my head.ejs file.
Now I just need to import this and this can be imported into the 404.ejs file by adding our ejs
syntax,
now with a minus and you use that if you want to output unescaped html code, that by the way means
that by default if you have this syntax with the equal sign and you would render some variable that holds
a string that holds html code, it would not render that html code
but render it as text to avoid cross-site scripting attacks, with a minus you can avoid this and
really render the html code.
We can do this combined with a keyword offered by ejs,
the include keyword which allows us to include a certain element into this page and then you close that
with the normal ejs tag, without the minus.
Now here in include, you simply add a string which holds the path to the file you want to include and
you have to enter this path as it's seen from the file you're in,
so the 404.ejs file
is in the views folder
so the file we want to include is in a subfolder. So we just have includes and then head.ejs
and this will now take the html code in here
and as I mentioned, then also render it here. Now
let me save that and let's go to some route that doesn't exist
and we still have a valid document here as we can prove if we open the page source,
so this all works,
now we're using an include. By the way if you use an equal sign here,
you see now it gets rendered as text and that is what I meant,
this is escaping the values
so it's not rendering it,
so if you had some script tag or anything fishy in there, it would not render it,
it would just display it as text and therefore protect you
but if you know what you're doing like we do here because we wrote the code we're including, we can and
we should of course include it as html.
So this is now using an include and we can now also use that for navigation,
so let's take all that navigation code here, put it into the navigation.ejs file and in there, we'll
also have to manage the active link again,
I'll come back to that in a second,
for now let's just go back to 404.ejs and here again, I will just include includes navigation.ejs
and close that. And last but not least, the end of the document is also shared even though it's very
short,
let's move that closing body and html tag into end ejs and let's share this too,
so here at the very end I will have include includes end.ejs, like this.
Now with all that out of the way, I can still load this page just fine and it works.
Now let's also implement this and this is of course a great practice for you too,
so feel free to pause the video,
let's also implement this for the other two templates we have.
Were you successful?
Let's try it for add-product.ejs, there
we also want to take our common code here out,
so the start of the document not the two links which are exclusive to this page here though, so which we
really only need there but instead of the other part, we can now include our includes folder and there,
head.ejs to bring back that start of the document here. In add-product, we
obviously need to replace more like the header,
so there we also should use include and then go to the includes folder, navigation,
close that and close the tag
and also the same for the end of the document since we did that before include, go to includes
and then here includes and then there we have
end.ejs.
So now we get this in there too
but of course one problem we face if we reload this page is that our active class is gone here,
so we need to bring that back and mark this navigation item as active
if we are on the add product page. Now for this, let's go back to the admin.js file real quick where we do
render this route and there let's remember that we already added this path for pug and we can reuse
that functionality.
We can go to our navigation.ejs file and then add a class here and there simply output something
rendered through ejs,
we can do this inline with an equal sign so we don't need to enclose a block of html code and simply
check if path is equal to
and now the path here is /admin/addproduct,
so basically the path which we define here and if this is equal, I'll use a ternary expression here
which is an inline if statement in Javascript,
so here we have the condition and if that is mapped, we now do whatever comes after the question mark.
So then I want to render active here and since I'm inside the class text here, I will basically just
add the active class, this is how you can read this,
always keep in mind that this simply gets replaced with text when the template is rendered,
so this will just become class equals active
and then I add the else condition with a colon and else is just that I rendered nothing.
And now I can copy that here,
that class assignment and do the same for add product where this should belong, there where
I did it originally, I should check for just slash because that is actually the path we set for the shop
here in the shop.js,
this path.
So now I got this in place, I'm checking for the two different paths here and I render the active class based
on that
and therefore if we save all of that and we reload the page, we got add product added here.
Now let's go to the shop.ejs
file and there
let's do the same.
Keep the link
which we need in that file, which is the product.css file and replace the other part with our general
include,
so in the includes folder, there we have the head.ejs file, replace the navigation as we did it before,
so there we have include includes navigation.ejs and of course also replace
the body of the document.
So here we have include includes and ejs, like this.
And now with that, if we save that too and we go to the shop page, it looks like it did before and we should still
be able to use our application as we did before but now we're using includes which is kind of giving
us the same experience as with layouts,
we have to repeat all this include code all the time but that is okay and we still benefit from having
shared code.
So with that out of the way, we got ejs added and we'll continue to work with that throughout this course
and I hope you got a solid understanding of why we use templating engines, which options you have and
how they roughly differ and with that,
you should of course be able to choose your favorite.